we were successful in Ecuador it
happened that the president who has
elected a few months before i arrived in
1960 would not even discuss or think
about breaking off with cuba and so we
undertook a whole series of operations
to make it impossible him to govern by
our support and our activities through
the right-wing political parties his
political opposition eventually the
military stepped in forced him out this
is November of 1961 just a year after I
got there forced this president Elgin
names of roscoe and the vice president
otto samana took over jerusalem same
thing refused to even consider breaking
with cuba and so what we did it early
1960 to seeing that situation we
organized the whole series of bombings
of catholic churches throughout the
country through the political opposition
that is the right-wing political parties
and these bombs did not cause very much
damage they were noise bones but they
were great for headlines and for then
stimulating huge demonstrations what we
did was we left behind flyers and
leaflets and inflammatory propaganda
attributed to the most important youth
organization the National Youth
Organization that supported the Cuban
Revolution it was called the
revolutionary union of Ecuadorian youth
we wrote these leaflets in our office
and they were printed on our contestants
training plan but we even used the print
shop symbol of the print shop of the
Communist Party a verla I me know if
equity and so they were authentic
looking and these would be left behind
in the churches at the bombings in the
message was down with the Catholic
Church and up with the Cuban Revolution
and they did not happen at once there
would be one one week and one another
and one another and we would then
finance after each one of these bombings
leave with finance buses and trucks that
would go ahead and get thousands of
cappuccinos from the countryside and
bring them in feed them and make this
big failure whether it be political
speeches and all that in support in
solidarity with the Catholic Church
announcing the cuban revolution well
this went from city to city over the
weeks and by march of 1962 it culminated
with the bombing of the Cardinals
residence in Quito the capital city this
also stimulated a huge massive maybe
50,000 people demonstration in the
capital city in solidarity with Carter
because these communists had tried to to
kill him or to assessment well we what
we knew what happened did happen the
most important military garrison in the
country in Cuenca revolted and they gave
the president 72 hours to break
diplomatic relations with Cuba if
American commercial relations with Cuba
the president prefers the luxury of the
presidential palace to exile in Panama
which we thought would be the case and
broke the cube